10. Transactions status @TudorMorar
    1. Get pending transactions hooks/functions
    2. Get transactions status hooks/functions


# Transactions status
For simplicity we'll consider sending two transactions. This way we can differentiate between the status of each transaction and the status of the sign session. What we understand trough sign session is the identifier of theste two transactions. The process starts after the two transactions are fromulated and sent to the account provider for signing, and ending when the transactions have a final status on the blockchain.
After using the sendTransactions helper, we are returned a `sessionId` which is the identifier of the sign session. This is the identifier that we will use to track the status of the transactions.

Fot this, the library exposes a hook called useTrackTransactionStatus;

```typescript
import {useTrackTransactionStatus} from "@multiversx/sdk-dapp/hooks";

const transactionStatus = useTrackTransactionStatus({
  transactionId: sessionId,
  onSuccess,
  onFail,
  onCancelled,
});
```

transactionStatus has the following information about the transaction:

```typescript
{
    isPending,
    isSuccessful,
    isFailed,
    isCancelled,
    errorMessage,
    status,
    transactions;
}
```

The first four properties are booleans that indicate the status of the whole batch.

sdk-dapp also exposes a number of handy hooks for tracking all, pending, failed, successful and timed out transactions.

Use:

- `useGetPendingTransactions` to get a list of all pending transactions.
- `useGetSuccessfulTransactions` to get a list of all successful transactions.
- `useGetFailedTransactions` to get a list of all pending transactions.

An especially useful hook called `useGetActiveTransactionsStatus` will keep you updated with the status
of all transactions at a certain point in time.

it's return signature is

```typescript
{
  pending: boolean, // at least one transaction is pending;
  timedOut: boolean, // there are no pending transactions and at least one has timed out;
  fail: boolean, // there are no pending and no timedOut transactions and at least one has failed;
  success: boolean, // all transactions are successful and all smart contract calls have been processed successfully;
}
```